---
layout: notebook
category: notebooks
active: notebooks

title: Vocation
---

<!--<div class="note">

	<p class="date"></p>
</div>-->

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>He who stands on tiptoe <br>
				doesn’t stand firm. <br>
				He who rushes ahead <br>
				doesn’t go far. <br>
				He who tries to shine <br>
				dims his own light. <br>
				He who defines himself <br>
				can’t know who he really is. <br>
				He who has power over others <br>
				can’t empower himself. <br>
				He who clings to his work <br>
				will create nothing that endures. <br>

				If you want to accord with the Tao, <br>
				just do your job, then let go.</p>
		<cite><i>Tao Te Ching</i>, 24</cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">29 May 2016</p>
</div>


<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>Except the Lord build the house, they labour in vain that build it</p>
		<cite>Psalm 127.1</cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">19 May 2016</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooners of this world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from out of toil.</p>
		<cite>Herman Melville, <i>Moby Dick</i></cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">17 May 2016</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p> Teach me work that honors Thy work,<br> 
				the true economies of goods and words, <br>
				to make my arts compatible <br>
				with the songs of the local birds.</p>
		<cite>Wendell Berry</cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">10 May 2016</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>The human race is a great coauthorship in which we are collaborating with God and nature in the making of ourselves and one another.</p>
		<cite>Wendell Berry</cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">7 May 2016</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>Therefore each particular being, in its individuality, its concrete nature and entity, with all its own characteristics and its private qualities and its own inviolable identity, gives glory to God by being precisely what He wants it to be here and now, in the circumstances ordained for it by His Love and His infinite Art.</p>
		<cite>Thomas Merton, <i>New Seeds of Contemplation</i></cite>
	</blockquote>

	<blockquote>
		<p>Our vocation is not simply to <em>be</em>, but to work together with God in the creation of our own life, our own identity, our own destiny. We are free beings and sons of God. This means to say that we should not passively exist, but actively participate in His creative freedom in our own lives, and in the lives of others, by choosing the truth. To put it better, we are even called to share with God the work of <em>creating</em> the truth of our identity.</p>
		<cite><i>ibid.</i></cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">28 Feb 2016</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>If you're content to be simply yourself, you'll become more than yourself.</p>
		<cite>Luke 14.11</cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">13 Apr 2015</p>
</div>