---
layout: notebook
category: notebooks
active: notebooks

title: Writing
description: On writing...
---

<!--<div class="note"></div>-->

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.</p>
		<cite>Ecclesiastes 11.6</cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">23 Feb 2016</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>You may be able to do without [writing habits] if you have genius but most of us only have talent and this is simply something that has to be assisted all the time by physical and mental habits or it dries up and blows away.</p>
		<cite>Flannery O'Connor, <i>Spiritual Writings</i></cite>
	</blockquote>
	<blockquote>
		<p>I write what I can and accept what I write after I have given it all I can.</p>
		<cite></i>ibid</i></cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">18 Feb 2016</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>If you write for God you will reach many men and bring them joy.</p>
		<p>If you write for men–you may make some money and you may give someone a little joy and you may make a noise in the world, for a little while.</p>
		<p>If you write only for yourself you can read what you yourself have written and after ten minutes you will be so disgusted you will wish that you were dead.</p>
		<cite>Thomas Merton, <i>New Seeds of Contemplation</i></cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">5 Jan 2016</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>I try to make writers actually see what they have written, where the strength is. Usually in fiction there’s something that leaps out—an image or a moment that is strong enough to center the story. If they can see it, they can exploit it, enhance it, and build a fiction that is subtle and new. I don’t try to teach technique, because frankly most technical problems go away when a writer realizes where the life of a story lies. I don’t see any reason in fine-tuning something that’s essentially not going anywhere anyway. What they have to do first is interact in a serious way with what they’re putting on a page. When people are fully engaged with what they’re writing, a striking change occurs, a discipline of language and imagination.</p>
		<cite>Marilynne Robinson, <a href="http://www.theparisreview.org/interviews/5863/the-art-of-fiction-no-198-marilynne-robinson">The Art of Fiction interview</a> for The Paris Review</cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">14 Oct 2015</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>However well we speak, we know that it is a halting, abbreviated version of the fullness that is the word become flesh. But our inadequacy does not incapacitate us. Because we cannot say it all does not mean that we are exempt from saying what we can. But it does suggest a certain humility, which is not always evident in persons who dare to witness to their Lord.</p>
		<cite>Eugene Peterson, <i>Reversed Thunder</i></cite>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="date">17 Aug 2015</p>
</div>

<div class="note">
	<blockquote>
		<p>What we need is not to become versed in the psychology of the saints, but to geet in touch with the objective reality which made them saints....Who, for instance, is the true artist–he who goes to Nature to use her as a means of self expression, or he who approaches her as a humble servant, seeking to record a fragment of her creative profustion simply because the truth of her is so beautiful? Who is the great writer–he who looks to his writing as a means of making him famous, or he who loses all personal ambition in his desire to interpret life simply because of his reverance and love for it? The answer is obvious. And the same hold s true in the spiritual life. The true master is he who is so bent upon his art–the loving realization of God in terms of his life–that he forgets the medium.</p>
		<cite>E. Herman, <i>Creative Prayer</i></cite>
	</blockquote>

	<p>So with writers. We study their habits as though their talent and inspiration arose from a series of acts. Writing isn't magic, learning the right words and motions and out pops a poem. When St. John sat down to write The Revelation, he was recording a vision of truth and beauty; he was writing from awe and passion. Find some habits and stick to them, but more importantly find  ways to fill your mind with truth and beauty and take on the role not of magician but of witness. To write truly, learn selflessness.</p>

	<blockquote>
		<p>My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory; but he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness in him.</p>
		<cite>John 7.16-17</cite>
	</blockquote>

	<p class="date">8 July 2015</p>
</div>